HARDY SHRUBS.
273
they require greater
care in handling. Ttie
roots should not be al-
lowed to get the least
dry before potting.
It is propagated in
Spring and Autumn.
When the wood is ripe
and the leaves begin
to fall, quite a number
of short stubby
growths will be found
on the flowering
shoots of the previous
Summers flowering
wood; these, if made
into cuttings about
10 inches long, and
buried up to within an
inch of the ends of the
shoots, will root free-
ly. Place them in some
shaded spot, and in
Winter cover with
half-decayed leaves or
straw to preventquick
thawing and freezing.
A quicker method of
propagation is to take
half-ripened wood
from indoor plants in
Spring; these are pot-
ted as soon as rooted,
and either grown on
in pots or planted out
when weather per-
mits.
One of the most re-
markable roses sent
out in recent years is
Mme. Norbert Leva-
vasseur, better known
as Baby Rambler.
The flowers have a
slight resemblance to
Crimson Rambler but
larger. Itbloomscon-
tinually during Sum-
mer and Autumn if
kept supplied with
water during dry
spells. There are sev-
eral seedlings from
this variety not yet
common with the
same habit but with
larger flowers.
Spie.ea cantoniensis â€” S^ee page
