502 P H Y T L G I A Vol. 64, No. 6
"FLORA OF THE BRITISH ISLES" Third Edition, by A.R.
Clapham, T.G. Tutin & D.M. Moore xxix + 688 pp., 82
black/white fig. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
& London, U.K. & New York, N.Y. 10022. 1987. $125.00.
This very important countrywide floral study was
first published in 1952, reprinted in 1957 and 1958,
had its second edition in 1962, and now appears again
updated with new findings from the field and from
taxonomic studies. The preface to this third edition
claims to continue "to provide general descriptions
which include lifeform and chromosome numbers and some
notes on phenology and mechanisms of pollination and
seed dispersal and also on variability, distribution
within and outside the British Isles, preferred
habitats and commonly associated species." The intro-
ductory synopsis of classification starts with the
pteri-dophytes and proceeds through the angiosperm
orders and ends with a clearcut artificial key to
families. There is a useful glossary at the end. The
detailed plant descriptions are as clearcut as nature
permits. This publication will prove to be so useful
in so many different pursuits.
"CONIFERS" by Keith Rushforth, 232 pp., 20 color
photo., 26 black/ white draw., 1 chart & 2 maps. Facts
on File Publications, New York, N.Y. 10016. 1987.
$24.95.
The author is a former curator of the outstanding
Hilier Arboretum in England and long interested in
conifers. He tells of their use in different kinds and
parts of gardens and even indoor in bonsai, and their
propagation, pests and diseases. The bulk of the text
is a gazetteer of conifers arranged by genera. This
book should prove a valuable and attractive source of
such information to gardeners, arborists, nursery
specialists and horticulture students for years to
come.
