4,975 to 11,765 mg/kg after use as a heat transfer fluid in a heat exchanger.
These PCDFs were identified as the agents that poisoned more than one thousand
humans in Japan in 1968 (EPA 1980; Lucier and Hook 1985a, b). Additional
research is needed on PCDFs and other toxic impurities in PCBs.
PCBs are extremely stable compounds, and slow to chemically degrade under
environmental conditions. Microbial degradation of PCBs depends on the degree
of chlorination and the position of the chlorine atom on the biphenyl
molecule; lower chlorinated BPs are readily transformed by bacteria, but not
the higher chlorinated compounds (NAS 1979). Higher chlorobi phenyls, i.e.,
those with five or more chlorine atoms, were more persistent in the
environment than those with three or less chlorine atoms; tetrachloro BPs were
intermediate in persistence (EPA 1980). Passage of PCBs through activated
sludge in sewage treatment plants for 48 hours resulted in 81% degradation for
Aroclor 1221 (21% chlorine by weight), 26% for Aroclor 1242 (42% chlorine),
and only 15% for Aroclor 1254 (54% chlorine) (NAS 1979). Because of their
wide range of physical properties, their chemical stability, and their
miscibility with organic compounds, PCBs have been used extensively as
hydraulic fluids, plasticizers, adhesives, heat transfer fluids, wax
extenders, dedusting agents, lubricants, flame retardants, and especially as
dielectric fluids in capacitors and transformers. The current uses of PCBs in
the United States have been severely curtailed and production was stopped
during the 1970's, although significant quantitities of PCBs are still used as
dielectric fluids in older transformers and capacitors (Safe 1984).
Commercial PCB formulations are sold under a variety of trade names
(Roberts et al. 1978; NAS 1979; EPA 1980; D'ltri and Kamrin 1983; Safe 1984).
In the United States, Aroclor is the most familiar requested trademark, but
PCBs have also been marketed as Chloretol, Dyknol , Inerteem, Noflamol, and
Pyranol. In other countries, PCB formulations have been sold as Pyralene
(France), Phenoclor (France), Kanechlor (Japan), Santotherm (Japan), Fenclor
(Italy), Apirolio (Italy), Soval (USSR), Oelor (Czechoslovakia), and Clophen
(West Germany). Some formulations are similar; for example, Kanechlor 600,
Phenoclor DP6, Clophen A60, and Aroclor 1260 all contain an average of 60%
chlorine, although the former three preparations are composed of a mixture of
hexachloro BPs, while Aroclor 1260 contains a variety of forms (Table 1; NAS
1979; EPA 1980).
Chlorination levels of PCB formulations differ markedly (Table 1). Among
Aroclor formulations commercially produced by the Monsanto Corporation,
Aroclor 1221 contained an average of 21% chlorine by weight and was a clear
mobile oil. Aroclor 1254 contained 54% chlorine and was a yellow viscous
liquid; 1260 contained 60% chlorine by weight and resembled a yellow sticky
resin; and Aroclor 1268 was a white solid (Safe 1984). Aroclor 1254 contained
less than 1% of biphenyl and monochloro BP, 0.5% dichloro BP, 1% trichloro BP,
21% tetrachloro BP, 48% pentachloro BP, 24% hexachloro BP, and 6% heptachloro
BP (NAS 1979). Aroclor 1016 was similar to Aroclor 1242, with both containing
an average of about 42% chlorine by weight, although 1242 contained 9% PCBs
with five or more chlorines and 1016 only 5% (Roberts et al. 1978). In
general, PCBs are relatively insoluble in water but freely soluble in nonpolar
