Mutagenic properties of Aroclor 1221 and 4-monoch1orobi phenyl to bacteria
were Indicated by positive Ames tests, and Aroclor 1260 and Kanechlor 500 were
demonstrably carcinogenic to mice and rats (NAS 1979). Unexpectedly, Aroclor
1254 prevented carcinogenesis and mutagenesis in rainbow trout. Trout fed 100
ppm dietary Aroclor 1254 for 3 months were significantly more resistant to
liver carcinomas (induced by dietary aflatoxins) when PCBs were prefed prior
to carcinogenic insult (Shelton et al. 1983). At the time of aflatoxin
administration, trout contained 594 mg/kg PCBs in fat which declined rapidly
over the next 12 months to 3.9 mg/kg. Aflatoxin-induced mutagenesis in trout
liver cells was also significantly inhibited (67%) by Aroclor 1254 under
similar conditions (Shelton et al . 1983).
Histopathology was reported in sensitive marine teleosts following
exposure for 2 weeks to PCB concentrations of 0.5 ug/1 ; similar damage effects
were recorded in oysters held for 24 weeks in 5 ug/1 of Aroclor 1254, but not
for 30 weeks in 1 ug/1 (Ernst 1984).
A wide variety of biochemical perturbations were recorded among teleosts
stressed by PCBs. The primary biochemical effect of PCBs is to induce hepatic
mixed function oxidase systems, thus increasing the organism's capacity to
biotransform or to detoxify xenobiotic chemicals and endogenous steroids
(Melancon and Lech 1983; Shelton et al . 1983). Coho salmon injected
intraperitoneal ly with 50 to 100 ug Aroclor 1254/kg body weight just prior to
smoltification contained elevated levels of PCBs in liver (500 to 1,200 ppb) 2
weeks after injection when compared to controls (25 to 45 ppb), showed
depressed gill Na-K ATPase and plasma thyroxin levels, and experienced great
difficulty in adapting to seawater (Folmar et al . 1982). Biochemical
indicators suggested that tissue accumulations of PCBs (at concentrations that
clearly could be derived through a contaminated diet or from water column
exposure) delayed events preparatory to, and involved in, saltwater adaptation
in coho salmon. Mixtures of Aroclor 1242 and 1254 fed to rainbow trout and
coho salmon at dietary concentrations of 500 ppm PCBs for 7 to 10 weeks
produced inhibited growth, enlarged livers, elevated muscle water content, and
lowered muscle lipid content (Leatherland and Sonstegard 1981). Salmon showed
disrupted calcium and magnesium metabolism in blood, muscle, and skeleton.
After about a week on PCB diets, both trout and salmon showed signs of poor
muscle coordination and tetany, accompanied by lateral or ventral caudal
flexion (scoliosis or lordosis). Brown trout fed diets containing 10 ppm of
Clophen A-50 for 43 days were anemic, hyperglycemic, and showed altered
cholesterol metabolism (EPA 1980). Brook trout held in Aroclor 1254 solutions
of more than 0.43 ug/1 for 48 days had decreased concentrations of
hydroxyprol ine in collagen isolated from the backbone (Johnson and Finley
1980). However, Aroclor 1254 did not markedly affect adrenaline response in
gills of rainbow trout, or glycogen storage in muscle (Kiessling et al .
1983).
Maximum Acceptable Toxicant Concentration (MATC) values bracket the "no
effect," and "measurable effect" levels, and are based on chronic exposure,
and variables such as growth, reproduction, and metabolic upset. MATC values
49
