indicators of PCB exposure. For example, Japanese quail fed 1,000 ppm of
Aroclor 1260, and that subsequently died, contained 780 ppm in brain; treated
survivors contained 250 ppm (as quoted in Heinz et al. 1984). Also, various
species of small birds that were killed by dietary exposure to Aroclor 1254
had PCB brain residues of 349 to 763 ppm (Heinz et al . 1984).
PCBs are associated with a variety of biochemical, histopathological , and
behavioral responses in birds. PCBs affect zinc and calcium metabolism in
chickens, disrupt vitamin A use in quail, and potentiate vitamin A deficiency
in chickens by interfering with selenium use (Roberts et al . 1978). Body
temperature, serum chemistry, and thyroid function of ringed turtle-doves was
significantly altered by 3,4,3' ,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (Spear and Moon 1985).
Metabolism of various respiratory pigments was disrupted by PCBs in birds and
mammals (Roberts et al . 1978). PCBs are good inducers of drug-metabolizing
enzymes that are vital in detoxification processes. Aroclor 1254 injected
once into liver parenchymal tissue of the barn owl ( Tyto alba ), at 30 mg/kg
body weight, produced increases in the levels of liver cytochrome P-450
activities (Rinzky and Perry 1983). Ringed turtle-doves fed 10 or 100 ppm of
dietary Aroclor 1254 showed depressed levels of dopamine and norepinepherine;
PCB residues in the brains of these doves averaged 2.8 in the 10 ppm group,
and 18.3 ppm in the 100 ppm group (Heinz et al . 1984). Pelicans ( Pelecanus
sp.) fed 100 ppm of dietary Aroclor 1254 for 10 weeks showed increased liver
histopathology (NAS 1979). Certain PCB congeners produce acute
histopathologic changes in chick embryo liver, and these same congeners
selectively induce cytochrome P-448 mediated mixed function oxidases; adverse
effects were noted within 24 hours at concentrations as low as 146 mg of
3,4,3' ,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl and 3,4,5,3' ,4' ,5 '-hexachlorobiphenyl on a whole
egg fresh weight basis (Rifkind et al. 1984). PCBs also have been associated
with abnormal behavior in European robins ( Erithacus nubecula ), pheasants,
quail, and other avian species according to Heinz et al. (1984).
MAMMALS
The mink is one of the most sensitive mammalian species to PCBs (Aulerich
and Ringer 1977; Ringer 1983; Hornshaw et al . 1983; Aulerich et al. 1985).
Signs of PCB poisoning in mink include anorexia, weight loss, lethargy, and
unthrifty appearance; prior to death, dark fecal stools indicative of the
presence of blood from the upper gastrointestinal tract (confirmed by
necropsy) was observed. Enlarged livers of mink given PCB diets were typical;
a similar pattern has been associated in practically all species studied. PCB
residues (10 to 15 ppm whole body fresh weight) within Great Lakes fish
incorporated into the diet of mink caused reproductive problems and death in
commercially ranched mink as long ago as 1965. Diets supplemented with as
little as 2 ppm of Aroclor 1254 for 8 months, or 5 ppm for 4 months, resulted
in near reproductive failure--with normal breeding and whelping, but a high
death rate of kits; reproduction was not affected at dietary levels of 1 ppm
of Aroclor 1254. Certain hexachlorobiphenyl isomers can produce death and
reproductive toxicity in mink at dietary concentrations as low as 0.1 mg/kg.
53
