403 CALIFORNIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCES [Proc. 4th Ser.
yond the middle and nearly as near to the second transverse cubitus as
the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein ; nervulus
interstitial and forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the dis-
coidal vein; membrane uniformly tinged with brown; legs blackish brown
throughout and covered with black hairs ; scopa typical, its hairs black
all over; hind metatarsi at most apparently a little narrower than mid
metatarsi ; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, dullish and finely
reticulated, as well as with some delicate wrinkles, rest of upper face of
propodeum sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurse but with smaller
punctures, and covered with finer hair; propodeal pleurae shiny, finely
reticulated and with sparse shallow punctures, floccus well developed;
abdomen with its tergum shining and sculptured much like the propodeal
pleurae but with well defined small punctures from two to six or more
puncture-widths apart on elevated portion of the first tergite, the punc-
tures hardly closer on the elevated portions of the succeeding tergites;
the depressed portion of the first, second, third and fourth tergites almost
impunctate; apical edge of first, second, third and fourth tergites with a
stramineous edge; second tergite with its elevated portion down the mid-
dle : depressed portion :: 18 : 9; fifth tergite shining, reticulate, its
punctures differing from those on the other tergites, its sculpture re-
calling cutis anserina; pygidium planate, truncate at apex; tergum with
conspicuous, short, nearly erect black hair bands ; fimbria black.
