ally the authorities of each, in friendly conference,
tried to bring them together, and after some diplomacy,
and some difficulties about the status that the mem-
bers of each should occupy in a new organization, the
union was happily effected, in the month of Decem-
ber, 1768, and on the 2d of January, 1769, Benjamin
Franklin, the honored scientist, the great statesman,
the man of affairs, was elected President of the
Society, and the subordinate officers were about
equally divided among the members of the two insti-
tutions.
The new society took the title of " The American
Philosophical Society, held at Philadelphia for Pro-
motine Useful Knowledofe," and such has been its
honored and honorable desig^nation from that time to
the present hour.
I have thus briefly sketched the history of the build-
ing in which we are now assembled, and, as briefly, the
history of the Society itself, and perhaps I ought to
terminate my address at this point, but I cannot for-
bear to call the attention of my brother members to
the illustrious list of members elected from 1769 up to
the present day, the labors of the Society in promoting
useful knowledge, the correspondence that it has held
with foreign bodies of the same sort, the accumulation
of the treasures which surround us here to-day, and all
that seems to clothe such an association with a most
honorable record and with the means for continued
usefulness.
I may say, in passing, that I have known this hall for
seventy-five years; that I recollect it when it was in
part occupied by Charles Wilson Peale, the founder of
the Philadelphia Museum, in which, while it con-
PROC. AMER. PHILOS. SOC. XXVII. 131. B. PRINTED JAN. 24> 1890.
