CHAPTER IV.
DEDUCTIVE REASONING.
THE general principle of inference having been ex-
plained in the previous chapters, and a suitable system
of symbols provided, we have now before us the com-
paratively easy task of tracing out the most common and
important forms of deductive reasoning. The general
problem of deduction is as follows : From one or more
propositions called premises to draw such other proposi-
tions as will necessarily be true when the premises are
true. By deduction we investigate and unfold the in-
formation contained in the premises ; and this we can do
by one single rule For any term occurring in any pro-
position or expression substitute the expression which is
asserted in any premise to be identical ivith it. To obtain
certain deductions, especially those involving negative
conclusions, we shall require to bring into use the
second and third Laws of Thought, and the process of
reasoning will then be called Indirect Deduction. In the
present chapter, however, I shall confine my attention to
those results which can be obtained by the process of
Direct Deduction, that is, by applying to the premises
themselves the rule of substitution. It will be found
that we can combine in one harmonious system, not only
the various moods of the ancient syllogism, but a great
number of equally important forms of reasoning, which had
no distinct place in the old logic. We can at the same
time dispense entirely with the elaborate apparatus of
logical rules and mnemonic lines, which were requisite
