NO. 3538 DECAPOD CRUSTACEANS â€” CHACE 655
Africa to St. Helena in the trade-wind drift; this explanation almost
certainly applies to Planes, which is a habitual passenger on floating
weed. Calappa gallus, which occasionally occurs on the east coast of
South Africa, probably never reaches the Cape of Good Hope, and
there is Uttle likelihood that it migrated directly from there to St.
Helena in the recent past. The evidence of a link between the faunas
of St. Helena and South Africa is even more obscure in the mollusks,
of which only 6 of 182 St. Helena species were known from South
Africa, but Cunningham reported a closer relationship in the fishes,
of which no less than 12 of 33 St. Helena species were reported from
South Africa.
One of the more surprising disclosures of the study of the Loveridge
collections is the number of Pacific species represented. The propor-
tion of decapods common to St. Helena and to the Indo-Pacific (30
percent) and eastern Pacific (26 percent) is noticeably greater than it
is in the fishes (24 and 18 percent), mollusks (8 and 5 percent), and
echinoderms (15 and 8 percent). Also, at least four of the decapods
that have been reported from the Pacific {Alpheus paragracilis, En~
oplometopus antillensis, Micropanope melanodactylus, and Planes
marinus) seem to have discontinuous distributions. (The probable
occiu-rence of Planes cyaneus off South Africa eliminates that crab
from this group.) A possible explanation for such interrupted dis-
tributional patterns (aside from insufficient collecting) is that some
of the species have been transported on the hulls of ships. For those
species that could withstand a few days' exposure to cool tempera-
tiu-es, there was ample opportunity for introduction to St. Helena by
this method when the island was a regular port of call for vessels
sailing around Cape Horn or the Cape of Good Hope before the
construction of the Suez and Panama Canals.
Finally, the four possibly edemic decapods thus far described from
St. Helena (JDardanus imperator, Pachygrapsus loveridgei, Acanthonyx
sanctaehelenae, and Pisa sanctaehelenae) are proportionately fewer (17
percent) than are the fishes (29 percent), mollusks (52 percent), and
echinoderms (50 percent) that are confined to St. Helena (and Ascen-
sion Island). Further collecting, or even the study of existing col-
lections, may reveal additional undescribed species, and it is not
unlikely that specimens now assigned to some of the more widely
ranging species, such as Pontonia pinnophylax, Alpheus macrocheles,
Panulirus echinatus, Enoplometopus antillensis, Dardanus arrosor,
Alhunea carabus, and Dromia erythropus, will eventually prove to be
specifically or subspecifically distinct.
