1952 Gleason, Fundan3r.tal Concepts in Taxonojnj,-
depends on the same sort of intuitive recognition posseased
by all people in all countries and at all times. V/e merely
go a step farther, analyze the cause of our intuitions, and
reduce our findings to words.
Kind and Population
In now becomes necessary to consider in more detail the
relation between these two concepts. Since both denote
groups of individuals and are characterized by siiilaritiea
among these individuals, it is clear that a kind of plant is
a population. It should be equally clear that not ill popu-
lations are kinds. Soma groups lack the morphological simi-
larity or the genetical continuity requisite to the concept
of kind.
I wish to develop this thesis by using one particular kind
of plant as an example. It is our common source of hay
fever, known to us as Ambrosia trifida and to the layman as
Ragweed or Horsewaed. It constitutes a population, unified
by the possession of structural features. Because of them
you and I know the plant at sight, even from a considerable
distance. Most plants have tnree-lobed leaves; some have
five-lobed; in every community some may be found with ovate
unlobed leaves; still others have part of the leaves lobed
and part unlobed. Some plants iiave a single terminal spike
of flowers; others branch above and bear several spikes.
Some plants are tall and bear many pairs of leaves; others
are short and bear only a few pairs. All combinations of
f^ese three sets and of still other characters may be made,
arid every such combination can be illustrated by a group of
individuals. Each such group will fully correspond to our
idea of a population. Every set of features, as chosen by
me, is distinctly morphological in nature. On just three
classes of characters, lobing of leaves, number of spikes,
and number of nodes, one might easily distinguish a hundred
populations, every one fully definable. A similarly large
number of populations may be differentiated within any spe-
cies by any one who cares to waste his time at it. Some
taxonoraists have.
"Saldsrdash, " says the taxonomist, an expression which
might well be couched in shorter and uglier words. But I
have made no claims that tnese populations have any import-
ance. They are merely to illustrate the i"act that in any
species an indefinitely large number of populations can be
distinguished.
Uow that each of you taxonomists wno may read this paper
has turned from these minor populations in Ambrosia trifida
â– tilth abhorrence or disgust, let me ask you frankly why. Your
