nEJlBAOEOTTS PLANTS.
16
ing little plant for the front row. It likes a
moiet, shady place. Its flowora are star-shaped,
of a delicate blue with yellow eye. It blooms
during the greater part of the season. Excel-
lent for cutting, to use in small bouquets.
The Sweet William of to-day is a great im-
provement on the Sweet William of twenty-five
years ago. The newer sorts are magnificent in
intensely rich shades of crimson, scarlet, and
maroon, beautifully marked with pure white. A
low grower.
Digitalis, or Foxglove, is a tall-growing plant,
with long spikes of drooping flowers. Suitable
for back rows.
The Canterbury Bell, or Campanula, blue and
white, is a good border plant. The single varie-
ties are bent.
No garden should be without its Pinks. The
Chinese varieties bloom the first year. The old-
fashioned " Grass Pinks" are as sweet and rich
in color as the greenhouse Carnation, and are
favorites for cutting. There are several classes
in the Pmk family, all deserving attention by
the cultivator of lovely flowers,
Platycodon is a newcomf-r, but it has already
won friends. It has bell - shaped flowers of
blue anfl white, produced throughout the greater
part of the season.
Helianthus muUiflonis is a great acquisition to
our list of hardy plants for the central States
and the South. North of Ohio it often fails to
survive the winter, if left in the ground. It is a
member of the Sunflower family. Its flowers,
which are produced in gi-eat profusion during
the latter part of the snason, are very double,
and of a dark, rich yellow â€” a color greatly
needed to give tone and brightness to the garden
where few yellow flowers are seen. This flower
is excellent for cutting.
