CAVE DWELLINGS OF MEN.
29
cave was examined year after year by scientific committees. The
findings were confirmed, and shown to be in place and so situated
as to forbid the supposition of the human remains being of more
recent origin than the accompanying deposits. Similar remains
have been found in many caves in all countries, and now consti-
Fig. 1. Corinthian Tomb at Petra.
tute only one among several kinds of evidences of man's glacial
and preglacial existence. A cave at Cravan, near Belfort, France,
appears to have been extensively used as a prehistoric burial-
place of the polished-stone period. It contained a number of
skeletons in such positions as suggested deliberate arrangement,
and with them were beautifully ornamented vases, polished-stone
bracelets, and a mat of plaited rushes. The cave of Marsoulas, in
the Haute-Garonne, France, was inhabited by man several times
during the palaeolithic age. The relics of what is designated as
the second occupation are interesting on account of the specimens
of artistic taste they afford. Besides the usual instruments of
silex, arrow-points, and the like, were found some peroxide of
manganese, which was probably used in tattooing, and engraved
designs ; a piece of bone adorned with a regular ornamentation,
engravings very much like those found in the valley of La Ve'zere ;
and a piece of rib having an ovibos (or musk ox) carved upon it,
in which, according to the Marquis de Nadaillac, the design is
treated with exact knowledge of anatomical forms, the relief is
brought out by shadings, and the drawing is vigorous. One of the
recent excursions of the French Association for the Advance-
ment of Science took in its way the grottoes of Lamouroux and
Montrajoux, near Brive. The grottoes of Montrajoux are natural
and have been used as the abodes of shepherds' families since the
VOT Xh 3
