SCIENCE IN THE PLANT WORLD
climb up whatever support is handy, exhibit
insensibility to light no matter from what angle
it strikes. Stems, flower and leaves of all plants
each give a different and scientific reaction
to light in a way which looks much like direc-
ting thought.
Nothing is more scientific than the skill with
which plants co-operate with gravity in con-
structing their root systems. The roots are often
trained to grow out horizontally and resist grav-
ity for a certain distance. Then they grace-
fully yield to its pulling power, and, curving
their tips downward, grow straight toward the
center of the earth. Any secondary roots which
are sent out again start horizontally to repeat
the above process on a smaller scale. All this
makes for an efficient, well-balanced root-
system.
A curious motion which is not thoroughly
understood is a slight gyratory movement ob-
servable in the tips of all living plants. It is
possible that it is connected in some way with
the earth's rotation or is it merelv a kind of
groping, feeling gesture? In the case of roots,
where the same gyrations occur, it undoubtedly
[129]
