357
after a day which will be remembered as a red letter day in the
club's annals.
Glastonhurij.â€” On Tuesday, Sept. 13th, a goodly muster of 25
members of the Field Club started at 9.5 a.m. from the Midland
Station for Glastonbury, with a view principally to examine the
lately discovered British village now being excavated by Alderman
BuUeid and his sons. Arriving at Glastonbury at 10.50, the club
was met by Mr. Arthur Bulleid and taken first to the Antiquarian
Museum, where all articles discovered in the pre-historic settle-
ment are deposited. These consist of much coarse hand-made
pottery in fragments, annular objects of baked clay, shuttles,
scrapers, a jet ring and domestic implements of bone and sand-
stone, but not one weapon of offence or defence. The bones also,
which are extremely numerous, are principally of farm-yard
animals, horses, pigs, sheep, and deer. The entire absence of
human bones seem to betoken these ancient inhabitants of the
peat fens to have cremated their dead, and maybe, some cinerary
urns will some day be discovered on the distant elevated country,
bordering the bog level. These aborigines were no cannibals, and
no implements of metal, flint or wood betokening a warlike nature
have yet been discovered. They evidently were given to pastoral
pursuits and hunted the roebuck and deer, and existed oh fish and
cereal crops. The Messrs. Bulleid have lately discovered a canoe
of oak, 18ft. in length, and hollowed out of a single trunk, in a
marvellous state of preservation, after being buried under peat
for more than 2,000 years. This canoe is now in an outbuilding
in Mr. Bulleid's private grounds, and was shown to the members
of the Field Club, but it is doubtful whether it will bear its
exposure to the atmosphere, after it becomes thoroughly dry, or
will crumble into dust. The entire absence of coins or Samian
pottery in the excavations betokens that these ancient people
existed before the Eoman age, and afford an interesting opening
for Archfeological research to dissipate the gloom which hangs at
present over the whole history of these peaceful aborigines ; we
