FRANDSEN. â€” REACTIONS OP LIMAX MAXIMUS. 203
plished by moving toward the earth. In hunting for food, it must
naturally do some climbing. These facts lead us to expect a possible
difference between the geotactic response of the nighttime and that of
the daytime. My experiments in this matter, however, gave inconclusive
results. But the animals experimented on were not in their normal en-
vironment. There was no light and little change in temperature to assist
the instinct, if it exists, in divining night from day. Moreover they did
not have to seek food, for it was constantly supplied them. Such being
the case, the instinct of concealment would be the main environmental
influence on the animal, and this impels it toward the earth.
These experiments have shown, then, that when the mechanical con-
ditions are favorable, most animals exhibit a positive geotaxis. This is
as we should expect. There were, however, a few exceptions. A few
animals went up when all the factors enumerated seemed to point to the
probability of a downward movement, and there were also a few animals
which went down when the mechanical difficulties were such as should
have impelled them upward. As previously noted, the upward-moving
animals sometimes displayed an unusual amount of activity, and the ex-
ceptional cases of positive geotaxis in the negative group were those of
animals usually slow and stupid. As the effort was constantly made to
select only fairly active animals in good condition for producing mucus,
there were not many of these exceptions. Knowing the habits of the
animal, we may naturally associate its activity with its food condition.
The question then comes up, Does the state of the animal's nutrition
affect its tendency to move toward the earth ? Does a poorly nourished
animal respond to the stimulus of gravity differently from a well-nour-
ished individual ? To get an answer to this question, four animals were
put into a small box which contained nothing but moist earth. The slugs
were kept there for three days, and a series of geotactic tests was then
made upon them. Two of the four individuals were inactive, and so un-
satisfactory in response that no series was obtained. The other two were
rather restless, but precise in response. All the animals were then
returned to the box and supplied with fresh cabbage leaves. The next
morning another series of geotactic stimuli was given. The rather
meagre results given in Table IX. are perhaps not worth very much, since
only one individual (No. 1) out of the four resjjonded well in both cases.
The ratios given in the second column (Table IX ) indicate that
slugs Nos. 1 and 2 belong with those of the positive half of Col. 8,
Table IV. I unfortunately neglected to control these experiments by
observing the geotaxis before the animals were deprived of food. In
