EEPOET OF DELEGATE TO ROYAL SOCIETY. xi
MacGreo-or, both members of our Halifax Institute, recommended
me not to press the leading. I acquiesced, and the meeting
adjourned. I brought away my Paper, which, as I thought it fit
to be read before the Royal Society, may not be an inappropriate
Paper for the afiiliated Nova Scotian Institute. I leave it with
you. The Society met again in the afternoon when the celebra-
tions had terminated. They elected Mr. Chaveau, a talented
French Canadian gentleman. President for the ensuing year, and
Dr. Sterry Hunt, an eminent geologist, Vice-President, and then
the session of the Royal Society concluded its labours with the
usual formalities.
It only remains to notice the gracious reception accoi'ded to
the members and delegates of the Royal Society by His Excel-
lency the Governor-General and Her Royal Highness the Princess
Louise, at Rideau Hall. The Society had been specially invited
to a Lunch and Garden Party, on the anniversary of the birth-
day of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, mother of the Princess, and
we need hardly say that the gracious invitation was generally
accepted. The Presentation took place in the Hall set apart for
the occasion. There were present Sir Charles Tapper and several
members of the Government and of Parliament, and other dis-
tinguished persons. That funny fellow Mark Twain was there
as a guest of His Excellency. Each member and delegate was
introduced by Dr. Dawson, President of the Royal Society, and
shook hands with the Governor-General and Her Royal Highness,
both of whom looked in the best of health and in excellent good
humor. The party were then ushered into the dining hall, which
v/as soon filled with guests. His Excellency presided. An hour
was spent in agreeable converse, and ample discussion of the
viands and wines lavishly prepared for the occasion. Only two
toasts were proposed. His Excellency gave The health of the
Queen of England, which was quietly but enthusiastically
responded to ; then that of the President of the United States,
which would have been responded to by Mark Twain, but was
otherwise arranged. After the lunch the party visited His
Excellency's Museum of curiosities, where were exhibited Zulu
rifles, on one of which at least â€¢' the blood still stuck to the stock"
