486 P H Y T L G I A Vol . 60, No. 7
12. 1963; J. F. Morton, Exot. PI. 121 (in color). 1971; Basu, Indian
Med. PI., imp. 3, 3: pi. 747. 1975; Batson, Gen. East. PI. 147.
1977; Fournet, Fl . Illust. Phan. Guad. 1415, fig. 675. 1978; Duke &
Ayensu, Med. PI. China 2: 637. 1985.
A virgate, soft-wooded, unarmed, very handsome and ornamental
shrub or low treelet, to 3 m. tall, suf frutescent undershrub, or
even a perennial herb, basally shrubby and stoloni ferous , of rapid
growth, gregarious; stems annual, usually very straight or arching,
wand-like, mostly unbranched, fluted, hollow; branches, when present,
very stout, hollow, obtusely tetragonal, the larger ones 8--10-sul-
cate, subglabrate; bark smooth, shiny, greenish or ashy-gray; blaze
greenish; nodes (except the younger ones) annulate, occasionally
marked with a band of pubescence; principal internodes mostly elon-
gate, 2.5--10 cm, long; leaves approximate, opposite, or verticil-
late in whorls of 3--6, sessile or subsessile, oleander-like; peti-
oles (when present) stout, 3--8 mm. long, glabrous, often striate;
leaf-blades membranous or thinly chartaceous, soft when fresh, most-
ly very fragile when dry, linear-lanceolate or oblong to narrowly
elliptic, varying to oblanceolate, 7.5--23 cm. long, 0.7--5.5 cm.
wide, apically mostly acute or acuminate, sometimes subobtuse, mar-
ginally entire and recurved, basally gradually attenuate to acute,
glabrous on both surfaces, sparsely punctate beneath; midrib stout,
very prominent beneath; secondaries slender, 7--10 per side, short,
arcuate-ascending, prominulous beneath, arcuately joined a few mm.
from the margins; vein and veinlet reticulation Mery sparse, obscure
above, not at all prominulous beneath; inflorescence axillary and
terminal, abundant, the axillary cymes opposite and solitary or
whorled, usually supra-axillary, 4--6 cm. long, 3--7-flowered, lax,
widely divaricate; terminal panicle thyrsoid, 45--60 cm. long, 15 â€”
25 cm. wide, very showy, usually much elongate and lax, composed of
3--12 whorls of trichotomous cymes, glabrous throughout, often more
or less continuous with the many axillary cymes borne in the upper
leaf-axils; peduncles and sympodia similar to the stems or branches
in size, shape, texture, color, and glabrescence, but slightly more
slender; bracts foliaceous, resembling the leaves in all respects
but smaller, usually numerous, caducous; bractlets broadly linear,
very numerous, reddish when young, 5--15 mm. long, 2--3 mm. wide,
glabrous; prgphylla linear, 1--6 mm. long; pedicels 0.5--2 cm. long,
glabrous; calyx green or finally red, very broadly campanulate,
thick-textured, glabrous or subglabrous, its tube 5--7 mm. long, the
rim deeply 5-lobed to or below the middle, the lobes subcoriaceous,
wide-spreading, ovate, 6--10 mm. long, basally 4--9 mm. wide, api-
cally acute or subacute; corolla hypocrateriform or infundibular,
mostly white or whitish to yellowish-white or cream-color, varying
to pinkish-white or yellow, very showy, not fragrant, opening at
night and closing in the next forenoon, its tube yery long and slen-
der, 7.5--15 cm. long, glabrous or patently glandular-hairy, cur-
vate, the limb 1.5--2.5 cm. wide, the lobes oblong or ovate-oblong
to obovate, 8--15 mm. long, apically obtuse, eventually strongly re-
flexed; stamens 4, inserted at the mouth of the corolla-tube, long-
exserted, "projecting in a double curve for some time after the
flower first expands, afterwards they become revolute" ( fide Roxb.);
