134 PLANT LIFE
which saturates the soil of peaty moorlands,
is not available for the vast majority of
plants, and they are consequently precluded
from occupying regions where such conditions
prevail. Those plants which do tolerate or
even demand them, often take in relatively
small quantities of the water, and they have
in consequence to limit the amount lost as
vapour in transpiration. In connection with
this limitation a variety of subsidiary modifi-
cations of habit may become manifest. Slow-
ness of growth, succulence, or the opposite
character of spininess, are common features;
whilst an evergreen habit with leathery leaves
is of fairly frequent occurrence amongst the
perennial plants of such localities. Indeed,
experience shows that any circumstance tend-
ing to reduce the amount of available water,
whether due to physical or physiological
conditions, will stamp its impress on the
vegetation.
The onset of a period of drought will
speedily result in the extinction of entire
species within the affected area, and their
places will rapidly be taken by others which
are already adapted to these new conditions.
Which of the many possible forms of adapted-
ness to drought a particular colonist may
possess, depends of course on its own inherent
and hereditary properties. The part played
by the environment in the matter is merely
to rule out all those plants which are not
previously fitted in one way or another to
