GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 211
Special Development of Reefs at the Edges of Platforms. The location^
of most barrier and atoll reefs on the peripheries of their platforms
has been explained by the greater abundance of food and oxygen
in the zone of breakers. This view still needs close scrutiny, not-
withstanding the high authority of the investigators who have adopted
it. Many reef-building species luxuriate also in lagoon areas, which
are removed from the influence of heavy surf and from the direct
impact of main ocean currents. Apparently, therefore, one or more
other factors must be considered. In the writer's opinion, a leading one
is the deleterious effect of bottom muds and sands on coral growth â€”
a principle well recognized by several authors but not sufficiently
emphasized in connection with the present problem.
During the late Pleistocene, as sea-level was slowly rising, the mud,
sand, and organic ooze on the platforms were kept stirred by storm
waves. All coral colonies on open-sea platforms were liable to be
partially or totally killed off by the clouds of sediment so raised and
carried by currents. Colonies situated well inside a platform edge
must have suffered from sediment drifted, in turn, from all points of
the compass. Only a few of these plantations could continue to live
and thus follow up the rising sea-level. Those successful in growing
well above the general flat surface of the platform would henceforth
be less damaged by sediment, which, of course, most aft'ected the
wholesomeness of the water immediately overlying the deeper, flatter
parts of the platform surface. Hence the occasional knolls of thriving
coral in lagoons are explicable, though the average condition of the
central platform areas was unfavorable to the continued upgrowth of
reefs.
On the other hand, a coral colony settled on the edge of a platfoi-m,
was subject to invasion by clouds of sediment, almost wholly from the
side of the platform itself. On the open-sea side, most of the finer
reef debris and plankton debris was persistently dragged out by the-
undertow and bottom currents into deeper water, where it was hence-
forth harmless. Throughout all post-Glacial time the water on the
platform edge was comparatively clean, except when the waves and
currents came from the side of the platform. Hence the coral planta-
tions on the edge had a decided advantage in their struggle for life.
As soon as they formed a surface reef (quickly accomplished), the
danger of fatal influxes of mud would be further greatly lessened for
those corals that grew on the outer face of the reef; since the reef
itself largely protected these corals from the platform sediments.
"To him that hath shall be given." Once well established on the
